.\" man page for Larry Doolittle's ntpclient
.\" distributed under GPL
.\" originally written by Walter Harms
.Dd Aug 1, 2017
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.Dt NTPCLIENT 8
.Sh NAME
.Nm ntpclient
.Nd Simple NTP client
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl dhlLnrstvV
.Op Fl c Ar count
.Op Fl f Ar frequency
.Op Fl g Ar goodness
.Op Fl i Ar interval
.Op Fl p Ar port
.Op Fl q Ar min_delay
.Op SERVER
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is an NTP (RFC-1305) client for UNIX-alike computers.  Its functionality is a
small subset of xntpd, but has the potential to function better within that
limited scope.  Since it is much smaller than xntpd, it is also more relevant
for embedded computers.
.Pp
If run as root the program daemonizes itself by default and starts synchronizing
with the given NTP server using default settings.  When run as a regular user the
program produces output similar to this:
.Bd -unfilled -offset indent
Day    Second     Elapsed   Stall  Skew      Dispersion  Freq
36765  00180.386  1398.0    40.3   953773.9  793.5       -1240000
36765  00780.382  1358.0    41.3   954329.0  915.5       -1240000
36765  01380.381  1439.0    56.0   954871.3  915.5       -1240000
.Ed
.Pp
The columns have the following meaning:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width DaysSeconds -compact -offset indent
.It Cm Day, Second
Time of measurement, UTC, relative to NTP epoch (Jan 1, 1900)
.It Cm Elapsed
Total time from query to response (microseconds)
.It Cm Stall
Time the server reports that it sat on the request (microseconds)
.It Cm Skew
Difference between local time and server time (microseconds)
.It Cm Dispersion
Reported by server, see RFC-1305 (microseconds)
.It Cm Freq
Local clock frequency adjustment (Linux only, ppm*65536)
.El
.Sh OPTIONS
Note, if the
.Ar SERVER
argument is omitted,
.Nm
defaults to use pool.ntp.org.
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c Ar count
Stop after count time measurements (default 0 means go forever)
.It Fl d
NTP debug/diagnostics, very noisy.
.It Fl f Ar frequency
Initialize the frequency offset.  Linux only, requires root access.
.It Fl g Ar goodness
Stop
.Nm
after getting a result more accurate than goodness microseconds,
default 0 means go forever.
.It Fl h
Show summary of command line options and exit.
.It Fl i Ar interval
Check time every interval seconds, default 600.
.It Fl l
Attempt to lock local clock to server using
.Xr adjtimex 1 ,
requires root access.
.It Fl L
Use syslog instead of stdout for log messages, default when started as
root.
.It Fl n
Don't fork.  Prevents ntpclient from daemonizing and also implies
logging to stdout, use
.Fl L
to enable syslog in this mode.
.It Fl p Ar port
Local NTP client UDP port, default 0 means "any available".  Very rarely
necessary to change.
.It Fl q Ar min_delay
Minimum packet delay for transaction, default 800 microseconds.
.It Fl r
Replay analysis code based on stdin, feature is disabled by default
compile time.
.It Fl s
Simple clock set, implies
.Fl c Ar 1 ,
requires root access.
.It Fl t
Trust network and server, no RFC-4330 recommended cross-checks.
.It Fl v
Verbose operation.  This option will cause time sync events, and version
information at start/stop to be logged.
.It Fl V
Display version and copyright information.
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
Larry Doolittle maintains the original,
.Lk http://doolittle.icarus.com/ntpclient/ upstream
.Pp
Joachim Nilsson maintains this at
.Lk https://github.com/troglobit/ntpclient GitHub
.Sh COPYRIGHT
The
.Nm
package is Copyright 1997-2015 Larry Doolittle, and Copyright 2010-2018
Joachim Nilsson.  It can be freely copied, modified and used according
to the terms of the GNU General Public License, version 2.  If you want
to distribute ntpclient under other terms, contact Larry.  He might
agree to other arrangements if you talk to him
.Em before
you start violating the terms of the license.
.Sh "SEE ALSO"
.Xr adjtimex 1 ,
.Lk http://www.ntp.org
